# Mongoose
## Defining your schema
Everything in Mongoose starts with a Schema. Each schema maps to a MongoDB collection and defines the shape of the documents within that collection.
```
const mongoose = require('mongoose');
const Schema = mongoose.Schema;

// Create User Schema
const UserSchema = new Schema({

});
```
Schemas not only define the structure of your document and casting of properties, they also `define document instance methods`, `static Model methods`, `compound indexes`, and `document lifecycle hooks` called _middleware_.

## Creating a model
To use our schema definition, we need to convert our `UserSchema` into a **Model** we can work with. To do so, we pass it into `mongoose.model(modelName, schema)`:
```
// Create User Model
const UserModel = mongoose.model('User', UserSchema);

module.exports = UserModel;
```
**Models** are fancy `constructors` compiled from `Schema` definitions. An instance of a model is called a `document`. Models are responsible for `creating and reading documents from the underlying MongoDB database`.

### Compiling your first model
When you call `mongoose.model()` on a schema, Mongoose _compiles_ a model for you.
```
var schema = new mongoose.Schema({ name: 'string', size: 'string' });
var Tank = mongoose.model('Tank', schema);
```
The _first argument_ is the **_singular_** name of the collection your model is for. Mongoose automatically looks for the **plural, lowercased version of your model name**. Thus, for the example above, the model `Tank` is for the **tanks** collection in the database.

**Note**: The `.model()` function makes a copy of schema. Make sure that you've added everything you want to schema, including hooks, before calling `.model()`!

## Populate
Mongoose has a more powerful alternative called `populate()`, which lets you reference documents in other collections.

Population is the process of automatically replacing the specified paths in the document with document(s) from other collection(s). We may populate a single document, multiple documents, plain object, multiple plain objects, or all objects returned from a query. Let's look at some examples.
```
const mongoose = require('mongoose');
const Schema = mongoose.Schema;

const personSchema = Schema({
  _id: Schema.Types.ObjectId,
  name: String,
  age: Number,
  stories: [{ type: Schema.Types.ObjectId, ref: 'Story' }]
});

const storySchema = Schema({
  author: { type: Schema.Types.ObjectId, ref: 'Person' },
  title: String,
  fans: [{ type: Schema.Types.ObjectId, ref: 'Person' }]
});

const Story = mongoose.model('Story', storySchema);
const Person = mongoose.model('Person', personSchema);
```
So far we've created two _Models_. Our `Person` model has its `stories` field set to an array of `ObjectIds`. The `ref` option is what tells Mongoose which model to use during population, in our case the `Story` model. All `_ids` we store here must be document `_ids` from the `Story` model.

**Note**: `ObjectId`, `Number`, `String`, and `Buffer` are valid for use as _refs_. However, you should use `ObjectId` unless you are an advanced user and have a good reason for doing so.
